@node About, Background, Installation, Top
@chapter About


@menu
* Status::
* License::
* Credits::
* Community::
* Reporting a bug::
* Contributing::
* Roadmap::
@end menu


@node Status
@section Status

The status of swarm is proof of concept vanilla prototype tested on toy network.

@node License
@section License


@quindex Under what restrictions can I use this software?
@quindex Under what restrictions can I modify this software?

@cindex license
@cindex LGPL

Swarm is free software.

It is licensed under @dfn{LGPL}, which roughly means the following.

There are @i{no restrictions on downloading} it other than
your bandwidth and our slothful ways of making things available.

There are @i{no restrictions on use} either other than its deficiencies,
clumsy features and outragous bugs. However, this can be amended,
because there are @i{no restrictions on modifying} it either.
See also @ref{Contributing}.

@quindex Under what copyright restrictions can I distribute material on swarm.

Freedom of use implies that anything goes.

@quindex Under what copyright restrictions can I redistribute this software?

What is more, there are @i{no restrictions on redistributing} this software or
any modified version of it.

@quindex What is the License of this software?

For some legalese telling you the same, read the License @c
@uref{http://creativecommons.org/licenses/LGPL/2.1/}

@c Creative Commons.

@quotation
@strong{Todo:}
Shall we not include the License?
@end quotation
@c @ref{Creative Commons}.

@quindex I am using swarm for commercial purposes to make money. Is this OK?

@quindex I am selling this product to people for money. Is this OK?


@node Credits
@section Credits


@node Community
@section Community


@enumerate
@item Forum: https://forum.ethereum.org/categories/swarm
@item Reddit: http://www.reddit.com/r/ethereum
@item Gitter: https://gitter.im/ethereum/go-ethereum/swarm
@end enumerate

@node Reporting a bug
@section Reporting a bug

Issues are tracked on github and github only: https://github.com/ethereum/go-ethereum/issues

@node Contributing
@section Contributing

See the ethereum developer's guide for how to contribute to the project.

@node Roadmap
@section Roadmap


@enumerate
@item
Incentive integration, network stress testing, viability, scalability
Encryption,
proveable prefix array for full text search,
swarm db, swarm fs via fuse,
ethereum on swarm

@end enumerate