@node Installation, Running a Node, About, Top
@chapter Installation

@quindex What do I want to install?

@quindex What is Swarm?

@menu
* Download::
* Supported Platforms::
* Prerequisites::
* Install::
* Uninstall and Reinstall::
* Installed Files::
@end menu

Swarm is part of the Ethereum stack and currently only supports running on the ethereum network as a subprotocol of the client nodes.
Installation instruction are identical to those for the ethereum go implementation.

@node Download
@section Download

@quindex Where can I find the sources?
The source code is found on github: https://github.com/ethersphere/go-ethereum/tree/bzz/


@node Supported Platforms
@section Supported Platforms

@quindex What platforms are supported by Swarm?
Geth runs on all major platforms (linux, MacOSX, Windows, also raspberry pie, android OS).

@quotation
@strong{Warning:}
This package has not been tested on platforms other than linux and OSX.
@end quotation

@node Prerequisites
@section Prerequisites

@quindex What do I need if I want to install this package?

@deffn Prerequisite {go}
@cindex go
@end deffn

Swarm reference implementation is written in the @dfn{go} programming language
@uref{http://golang.org/}.
@cindex make, GNU

@node Install
@section Install

@quindex How do I install the swarm?
@cindex make, swarm installation
@cindex Makefile, swarm installation

@example
$ make && sudo make install
@end example

in the toplevel directory of the unpacked distribution.

@node Installed Files
@section Installed Files

@quindex What gets installed when I install swarm?

The following files and directories are installed, paths are relative to
the @i{install prefix} (@pxref{Install}):

@itemize

@item

@end itemize


